 Privacy & Cookie statement  



  Stories Jobs Newsroom Our business   Open main menu Privacy and Cookie statement Updated 24 October, 2024 The IKEA vision is to create a better everyday life for the many people. That’s a big job, and one that we at Inter IKEA Group take seriously. Who are the many people? You are! Whether you’re an IKEA customer, business partner, co-worker or wish to apply for a job at an IKEA company, the IKEA vision is all about you. So naturally we want to get to know you better. One way we do that is by collecting your personal information. If you’re reading this, you’re probably curious about what information we collect, how we use it and what rights you have when we process your personal information. Read on to find out.This privacy and cookie statement consists of various chapters. Below is a drop-down menu. Just click on the topic that you want to know more about and the relevant information will appear.This privacy and cookie statement is reviewed and updated regularly. If we change this statement, we will post the updated statement here. Any changes will go into effect on the last updated date shown above. We will not retroactively use or share your personal information for materially different purposes without first taking reasonable steps to notify you.Without your information, our job would be a lot harder, so thanks for sharing! We hope to make your everyday life better in return.Who we are and how we set up our website  IKEA is one brand but many companies. Each plays a special role to achieve the IKEA vision.We are Inter IKEA Group. We are the group of companies that connects IKEA franchisees with range development and suppliers, and aligns the overall IKEA strategic direction – all to create a better everyday life for the many people. The Inter IKEA Group includes Inter IKEA Systems B.V. – the worldwide IKEA franchisor – as well as range development, supply and certain industry activities. It also includes IKEA Älmhult AB, the owner of the IKEA Museum in Älmhult, Sweden.This privacy and cookie statement applies to Inter IKEA websitesIn this privacy and cookie statement we explain how we, at Inter IKEA Group, process and protect your personal information on our websites www.ikea.com, www.inter.ikea.com, www.ikeamuseum.com, www.jobs.ikea.com, www.ikeasocialentrepreneurship.org, www.ikea.es, and at the IKEA Museum and the IKEA store in Delft, Netherlands. We also tell you all about your privacy rights.In this privacy and cookie statement we also explain how we use cookies on our websites. Although most Inter IKEA websites use the same categories of cookies, the actual cookies may differ per website. For example, some of our websites may have YouTube cookies, while other websites may not. You can find detailed Information about the cookies  on each page, either in the cookie banner, or at the bottom of the page under “cookie settings”.   Any choice you make with regards to the placement of cookies on one webpage does not automatically transfer to other websites. You are required to choose your cookie settings separately for each Inter IKEA website.Links to other IKEA websitesOn our homepage we offer links to other IKEA websites. Not all of these IKEA websites are owned by Inter IKEA Group; some are owned by our franchisees. For example, if you click on the “go shopping” button on our homepage www.ikea.com, you will be directed to an IKEA country website (except for Spain, where you will be directed to a landing page initially). If you click on “IKEA Foundation” on our homepage www.ikea.com you will be directed to www.ikeafoundation.org. IKEA country websites and the IKEA foundation website are owned and managed by our franchisees.Our franchisees have their own privacy and cookie policies. This privacy and cookie statement is not valid for IKEA franchisees’ websites. Any choice you make with regards to the processing of your personal information and the placement of cookies on our websites does not transfer to the IKEA franchisees’ websites.When you visit our websites (cookie statement)  On our websites we use cookies. These are small text files that are stored on your computer, phone or tablet. The information contained in these files allows us to optimise and personalise our website for you, to analyse how our website is used and to show you relevant advertising.In addition to cookies, there are other technologies that we use to store and read information on your computer, tablet or mobile phone, such as Javascript and tracking pixels. For the sake of convenience we will also refer to them as 'cookies'.Read more about the categories of cookies that we use on our websites below. The actual cookies placed may differ per website. You can find detailed Information about the cookies placed on each page, either in the cookie banner, or at the bottom of the page under “cookie settings”.  Please note that any choice you make with regards to the placement of cookies on one webpage does not automatically transfer to other websites. You will have to choose your cookie settings separately for each website.Types of cookies used on our websitesOn our websites we use the following types of cookies:a.     Strictly Necessary Cookies or Technical CookiesTechnical cookies are necessary for the website to work properly. For example, these enable you to easily navigate through our websites and to register your privacy settings. Without technical cookies, our websites do not function. For this reason, these cookies are always set and we do not require your consent to use them. We do not process any personal information through these cookies.b.     Preference cookiesWith your consent, we place preference cookies on your device. These cookies are used to store your preferences. For example, we remember which language you have set and your country of preference. With this information we can make your interaction with our websites more user-friendly.We base the placement of preference cookies and the processing of data collected through these cookies on your consent.c.      Analytical cookiesWith your consent, we place analytical cookies on your device. With these cookies we collect information about your computer, internet and system administration. With these cookies we also collect aggregated information on how you use our websites, time spent, pages visited, geolocation, etc.This information allows us to estimate our audience size and usage patterns, store information about your preferences and recognise you when you return to our websites. We use this information to improve our websites and services and to give you a more personalised experience, by customizing our websites according to your individual interests. This information does not allow us to identify you or draw conclusions about you.We base the placement of analytical cookies and the processing of data collected through these cookies on your consent.d.     Marketing cookiesWith your consent, our advertisers place so-called marketing cookies on your device. They use these cookies to track which pages you visit from their network in order to build up a profile of your online surfing behaviour. This profile is partly built on the basis of comparable information obtained from your visits to other websites in their network. This profile is not linked to your name, address, e-mail address and the like as known to us, but only serves to tailor advertisements to your interests so that they are as relevant to you as possible.We base the placement of marketing cookies and the processing of data collected through these cookies on your consent.Managing cookiesYou can opt out/withdraw your consent at any time by clicking on the “cookie settings” link that is shown at the bottom of each website and change your settings. Please note that any choice you make with regards to the placement of cookies on one webpage does not automatically transfer to other websites. You will have to withdraw your cookie consent separately for each website.If you withdraw your consent, the cookies placed on your browser will be disenabled and will no longer collect your personal information. But they will not automatically be removed from your browser. You will have to do this manually.Withdrawal of consent does not affect processing of your data that took place prior to the withdrawal.Responsibility for the placement of cookies and the processing of your personal information collected through cookies on our websitesOur websites www.ikea.com, www.inter.ikea.com and www.ikea.es are owned by Inter IKEA Systems B.V.. Inter IKEA Systems B.V. is responsible for the placement of cookies and the processing of your personal information collected through cookies placed on these websites.Our website www.ikeamuseum.com is owned by IKEA Älmhult AB. IKEA Älmhult AB is responsible for the placement of cookies and the processing of your personal information collected through cookies placed on this website.Our website www.jobs.ikea.com is owned by Inter IKEA Group. Inter IKEA Group entities are jointly responsible for the placement of cookies and the processing of your personal information collected through cookies placed on these websites.Our website www.ikeasocialentrepreneurship.org is owned by IKEA Social Entrepreneurship B.V.. IKEA Social Entrepreneurship B.V. is responsible for the placement of cookies and the processing of your personal information collected through cookies placed on this website.How long we keep your personal information collected through cookiesWe will keep your personal information for no longer than necessary for the purpose for which we process your data. We may store your information longer than stated above if it is necessary to fulfil legal obligations, or to protect our legal rights, for example in a legal dispute.Other IKEA websitesOn our homepage we offer links to other IKEA websites. Not all of these IKEA websites are owned by Inter IKEA Group; some are owned by our franchisees. For example, if you click on the “go shopping” button on our homepage www.ikea.com you will be directed to an IKEA country website. If you click on “IKEA Foundation” on our homepage www.ikea.com you will be directed to www.ikeafoundation.org. IKEA country websites are owned and managed by IKEA franchisees. The website www.ikeafoundation.org is owned by our franchisee INGKA.Our franchisees have their own privacy and cookie policies. This privacy and cookie statement is not valid for IKEA franchisees’ websites. Any choice you make with regards to the processing of your personal information and the placement of cookies on our websites does not transfer to the IKEA franchisees’ websites.When you click on “go shopping”  On our website www.IKEA.com we offer links to IKEA country websites. You can reach these IKEA country websites by clicking on the “go shopping” button on our website.The IKEA country websites are owned, managed and operated by IKEA franchisees. Our franchisees have their own privacy and cookie policies. This privacy and cookie statement is not valid for the IKEA country websites. Any choice you make with regards to the processing of your personal information and the placement of cookies on our websites does not transfer to the IKEA country websites.When you contact us  What personal information we collectWhen you contact us, we may collect and use records and copies of your correspondence. This includes contact details, such as name, e-mail address and phone number. If you contact us on behalf of an organisation, this also includes organisation type, registered number and address.We will use your personal information to help you with whatever matter you submit to us.We base our processing of this data on the legal ground of legitimate interest.Responsibility for the processing of your personal informationThe Inter IKEA Group entity contacted by you is responsible for the processing of your personal information.How long we keep your personal informationWe will keep your personal information for no longer than necessary for the purpose for which we process your data. We may store your information longer than stated above if it is necessary to fulfil legal obligations, or to protect our legal rights, for example in a legal dispute.When you subscribe to our newsletter  What personal information we collectOn our website we offer you the opportunity to subscribe to our newsletter. For this we ask for your e-mail address. We will use your e-mail address for the sole purpose of sending you our newsletter. In each newsletter we will offer you a free and easy way to unsubscribe.We base our processing of this data on the legal ground of performance of an agreement.Responsibility for the processing of your personal informationInter IKEA Systems B.V. is responsible for the processing of your personal information.How long we keep your personal informationWe will keep your personal information for no longer than necessary for the purpose for which we process your data. We may store your information longer than stated above if it is necessary to fulfil legal obligations, or to protect our legal rights, for example in a legal dispute.We keep the e-mail address that you provided to us to receive our newsletter until you unsubscribe. After you’ve unsubscribed your e-mail address will be removed from our database.When you book a visit to/visit the IKEA Museum  What personal information we collectBookingsIn the IKEA Museum we sometimes arrange special workshops and events, either free or paid, which may require advance booking. We also offer tours with our inspiring, knowledgeable guides. Apart from open tours, which are available and included in the admission for individual visitors and small groups, we offer more in-depth tours that must be booked in advance.When you make a booking for an event or tour at the IKEA Museum we ask you for your name, e-mail address, telephone number, payment method and payment details.We use your contact details and booking information to make the reservation and provide you with the requested services. We base this processing of your data on the legal basis of performance of an agreementWe also use your contact details and booking information to improve our museum and related services and to inform you about future exhibitions. We base our processing of this data on the legal basis of legitimate interest.Visiting the IKEA MuseumIn the IKEA Museum we use CCTV cameras.The recorded material may be used for internal and/or external investigations, in the event of an incident or for other security purposes. We do this to create a safe environment for our guests and employees. We base this processing of your personal information on the legal basis of legitimate interest.Who is responsible for the processing of your personal information?IKEA Älmhult AB is responsible for the processing of your personal information.How long we keep your personal informationWe will keep your personal information for no longer than necessary for the purpose for which we process your data. We may store your information longer than stated above if it is necessary to fulfil legal obligations, or to protect our legal rights, for example in a legal dispute.As a rule, we keep information about your booking for the IKEA Museum for a period of one year after your last booking. We may store your information longer than stated above if it is necessary to fulfil legal obligations, or to protect our legal rights, for example in a legal dispute.CCTV recordings are kept for maximum of four weeks. In case of an incident we may keep the recordings longer if necessary to investigate and handle the incident. When you visit our IKEA store in Delft  The IKEA store in Delft is owned by Inter IKEA Systems B.V. All other IKEA stores in the Netherlands are owned by our franchisee IKEA BV.To ensure that our customers’ privacy is protected in the same way in all IKEA stores in the Netherlands, we have chosen to adopt one privacy statement for all IKEA stores in the Netherlands. You can find the statement on www.ikea.com/nl/nl/customer-service/privacy-policy.When you raise a concern  On our website www.inter.ikea.com we offer you the opportunity to raise a concern regarding breaches or misconduct related to the Inter IKEA Group code of conduct or breaches of laws and regulations.The Raise a Concern platform gives you the possibility to speak up and be listened to.More information about how to raise a concern, how Inter IKEA Group manages the concerns that are raised and how we process and protect any personal information related to your concern, can be found here.When you apply to work at IKEA  On our website www.jobs.ikea.com we offer you the opportunity to apply to work with us.On this website you can find jobs available at IKEA companies globally. These jobs may be offered by both Inter IKEA Group companies and IKEA franchisees.If you apply for a job at an Inter IKEA Group company, you will be directed to the website www.jobs.smartrecruiters.com. There you will find the privacy and cookie statement of the Inter IKEA Group company you applied to. Please check the statement to find out how your personal information is processed and protected by the Inter IKEA Group company you applied to.If you apply for a job with one of our franchisees, you will be directed to the website of the franchisee you applied to. Our franchisees have their own cookie and privacy statements. Please check these statements to find out how your personal information is processed and protected by the IKEA franchisee you applied to.Who we share your information with  We share personal information with others who can help us achieve the IKEA vision. That may be other IKEA companies, service providers or business partners. We’re all committed to keeping your information safe and secure. When you consent to marketing cookies, we may also disclose your personal information to third parties.Below you can read more about the personal information that we share, the parties that we share your personal information with, the purposes for which these parties process personal information and the choices you can make.IKEA companiesIKEA is one brand but many companies. Each plays a special role to achieve the IKEA vision. We may share your information with other companies operating under the IKEA brand.Service providers and business partnersTo provide our services to you, we may share your data with third parties providing services to us.For example, some of our cookies are set by third parties. These third parties may combine your data with data that you have provided to them or that they have collected as part of other services that they provide to you.These third parties may be in the Netherlands as well as within other countries in the European Economic Area (EEA). Sometimes they may also be outside the EEA. We have concluded agreements with our service providers and business partners, to ensure that your personal information is protected, both within and outside the EEA.Third partiesIf you consent to marketing cookies, we may share certain personal information with advertising companies, marketing companies and analytics partners. For example, we may share identifiers, internet and network activity information and other information about how you interact with our websites or mobile applications. These third parties may use your personal information for targeted advertising, marketing and campaign management purposes.You may opt out/withdraw your consent at any time. More information on how to opt out/withdraw consent can be found under “When you visit our website (cookies)”.How we keep your personal information safe  We take both technical and organisational measures to protect your personal information against destruction, loss, alteration, unauthorised disclosure or access.Examples of technical measures are encryption of your personal information and regular destruction of logs. An example of an organisational measure is that only authorised employees of Inter IKEA are allowed to view your data. These employees only have access to your personal information to the extent necessary to perform their duties and are required to treat your personal information as confidential.Your privacy rights  Your rightsYou have a number of privacy rights. For example, you can ask us what personal information we process about you. And if the information is incorrect, have it corrected. You can also object to the processing and sharing of your personal information. And you can ask us in some cases to delete, transfer or restrict the processing of your personal information. You also have the right to opt out/withdraw consent, at any time. This includes the right to opt out/withdraw consent for the placement of functional, analytics and marketing cookies. Please note that some of the rights may not be applicable to your situation.Do you disagree with how we process your personal information? Then you can file a privacy complaint with us as described below, or you can lodge a complaint with the national supervisory authority.Our websites are not directed at children, nor do we have actual knowledge that we sell or share the personal information of children. If you have knowledge that a child has submitted personal information to us, we request that you contact us via one of the methods listed above so that we may delete the information.If you would like to exercise your rights or learn more, feel free to contact us. Exercising your rights will in no way affect the way we treat you!How to exercise your rightsYou can send your request by e-mail or in writing. Our contact details, can be found under “Who to contact”.  If you choose to exercise your rights, we ask you to provide sufficient information, including your country of residence, state (if applicable) and contact information. And we ask you to include the subject to which your request relates. This information will enable us to verify your identity and process your request. Depending on the type of request, we may request additional information.You may use an authorised agent to submit a request on your behalf. If you choose to use an authorised agent, make sure that you supply your agent with written permission to act on your behalf. We will ask your agent to provide us with proof of such authorisation before we process your request.We will respond to your request within the timeframe required by applicable laws.Who to contact?  If you have questions about our cookie- and privacy statement or practices, please feel free to get in touch. You can contact us at: data.privacy@inter.ikea.com.Or you can write to us at: Data Protection Officer, Inter IKEA Holding B.V., Olof Palmestraat 1, 2616 LN, Delft, Netherlands.Please be aware that requests addressed to any of the above addresses will be submitted to Inter IKEA Group. All IKEA sales channels and IKEA stores (with the exception of the IKEA store in Delft, Netherlands) are operated by our global franchisees. If your request relates to personal data processed by our franchisee(s) in your country of residence, please contact your national IKEA Customer Support Centre. It handles all customer requests within your country. To find your local IKEA customer support, visit www.IKEA.com and select your location/country and your local IKEA customer support.   IKEA logoIKEA logo in white     International SalesInter IKEA GroupIKEA FoundationIKEA MuseumIKEA Social EntrepreneurshipFAQs   Cookie settings Privacy & Cookie statement  © Inter IKEA Systems B.V. 1999 - 2024     